---
layout: post
title:  "Linux|Record of Installing Ubuntu 18.04"
date:   2019-02-15 11:41
author: Botao Xiao
categories: Linux
description:
---

### Create installation usb
1. Prepare a usb whose storage is bigger than 4 GB.
2. Download ubuntu 18.04 from their [official website](https://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop).
3. Download UltraISO and use their free trial.
4. Write the iso to usb by the following process:
    * File -> Open -> Select the iso from your file system.
    * Boot -> write into hardware.
    * Attention: You must select the usb not a hard disk in your computer, this process will diskette your storage.
    * diskette -> write.
5. Now you have a Ubuntu installation usb.

### Installation
#### Bootload from usb
1. Different factories will have different settings for their bios though entering bios is always the same, when starting your computer, press F2 or F12.
2. Setup the priority of bootload, make USB the highest priority. Save and exit, the computer will reboot from Ubuntu.

#### Installation
Installation of ubuntu is super simple and easy to understand.
1. Click the graphic interface in current Ubuntu testing system.
2. Select lanuage, for example, English.
3. Select region.
4. Currently, the installation program will detect the hardwares in the computer, and you can custom your hard disk partition and mount point.
    * Example: I have two hard disks(SSD 256g and 1T mechanical hard disk), 16G RAM.
    * sda 1T mechanical hard disk: mount to /.
    * sdb 256G SSD(Install the os on this disk):
        * 32G for swap, normally, I set to the double size of RAM.
        * 500M for EFI region, so you can start the program as a EFI.
        * 512M mount to /boot, the bootloader programs will be installed into this region.
        * Rest format as Ext4 and mount to /home.
    * Go to next step.
5. Setup username and divice name. Setup password, you have to remember this password since this first user will be record as supervisor.
6. Install.

### Drivers install
I highly recommand that you have your computer connected to internet using wire before installing the drivers since you might not have proper network card driver in current Ubuntu.

In Ubuntu, the most powerful program for downloading is apt, so we need to update the list in apt before doing any one of the following actions by using:
```Bash
sudo apt-get update
```

#### Installing gcc
You may want to download the source code and compile them by yourself, so use installation of gcc is super important.
```Bash
sudo apt-get install gcc
```

### End
Now you have a Ubuntu 18.04 to work. This article includes all process of installing this OS and I will have some more blog about different programs on this OS.